1. Why do we need static keyword in Java Programming?
Ans: The tatic keyword in Java i ued to indicate that a member£belong to a cla rather than an
intance of a class. Thi mean that£the member can be acceed without having to create an
intance of£the class.

Here are ome common ue of static in Java:¢
 To create class-level variable that are hared by all intance of a£cla.¢
 To create class-level method that can be called without creating an£intance of a cla.¢
 To create a block of code that i executed when a clas is loaded.

2. What is class loading and how does the Java program actually executes?
Ans: class Loading
In Java, claloading i the proce of loading cla file into the JVM£(Java Virtual machine) at
runtime. It i reponible for loading clae£from variou ource, such a the file ytem, network,
and databae, and making them available to the JVM for execution.

Three phases of class loading:
1.Loading
2. Linking.
3. Initialization.

3.Can we mark a local variable as static?
Ans: No.

4. Why is a static method also called a class method?
Ans: A tatic method is alo called a clas method becaue it tie to a£cla rather than an individual
intance of a clas. Therefore, we need not to create an object of the cla to call and execute a
static method.

5. Why is the static block executed before the main method in java?
Ans: When the dot cla file i loaded into memory, a tatic block i£executed. After executing the
tatic block, JVM call the main method to£tart execution. Therefore, the tatic block i executed
before the main£method.

6. What is the use of static keyword Explain with an example
Ans: The static keyword in Java is used to indicate that a member belongs to a class rather than an instance of a class. This means that the member can be accessed without having to create an instance of the class.

Examples: 
public class Counter {
    private static int count = 0;
    public Counter() {
        count++;
    }
    public static int getCount() {
        return count;
    }
}

7. The difference between a static variable and instance variable is as
follows.
Ans: A static variable is also called a class variable whereas an instance variable is also called a non static variable.
« Class variables can be accessed inside a static block, instance block, static method, instance method, and method of the inner class whereas,instance variable can be accessed only inside the instance members, and method of the inner class.
« Class variable is always resolved during compile time whereas, instance variable is resolved during the runtime.
« Static variables cannot be serialized in Java whereas instance variables can be serialized.

8. Difference between static and non static members of a class
Ans: static: 
« These variables are called “class variables”.
« These variables will get memory in the method area.
« If the value does not change from object to object then we need to use static variables.
« Inside a static area we can access static variables only.
« Static variables are created using static keywords.

Non-static:
« These variables are called “instance variables”.
« These variables will get memory in the heap area.
« If the value changes from object to object then we need to use “non-static” variables.