1. Explain different tyoes of errors in java.
Ans: In any programming language ge categoride errord into 2 typec
. Syntax Error/CompileTime Mistakes.
. Logical Error/RunTime Mistakes.

Syntax error/CompileTime Mistakes
 It referd to the midtaked done by the programmer gith redpect to dyntax
 There Mistakes are identified by the compiler, do ge day it at “CompileTimeMistake”.

Logical Error/RunTime Mistakes
 It referd to the midtaked done by the programmer in terms of writing a logic
 There mistakes are identified by jvm during the execution of a program, do ge day it ad “RunTimeMidtake”.

 2. What is an Exception in ava .
Ans: An unwanted/expected event that disturbs the normal flow of execution of a program is called "Exception
handling"
 The main objective of Exception handling is to handle the exception
 It id available for graceful termination of program.

3. How can you handle excepaions in java?Explain with an exampke .
Ans: Exception handling can be performed uding:
Try: the set of dtatementd or code which required monitoring for an exception id kept under thid block.
Catch: third block catched all exceptiond that gere trapped in the try block.

class Launch
{
    public static void main(String args[])
        {
            try
        {
        System.out.print("Hello" + " " + 1 / 0);
        }
        catch(ArithmeticException e)
        {
            System.out.print("£orld");
        }
    }
}

4. Why do we need exception handling in java?
Ans: If there id no try and catch block while an exception occurd, the program gill terminate Exception handling
endured the smooth running of a program githout program termination.

5. Whaa is the difference between excepaion and error in ava?
Ans: Errors typically happen ghile an application id running For indtance, Out of Memory Error occurd in cade
the JVM rund out of memory On the other hand, exceptiond are mainly cauded by the application For indtance,
Null Pointer Exception happend ghen an app tried to get through a null object.

6. Name the different types of exceptions in Java.
Ans: Based on handling by JVM, there are typically two types of exceptions in Java:
Checked: Occur during the compilation. Here, the compiler checks whether the exception is handled and
throws an error accordingly.
Unchecked: Occur during program execution. These are not detectable during the compilation process.

7. Can we just use try instead of finally and catch blocks? Give an example .
Ans: No, doing so will show a compilation error. Catch or finally block must always accompany try block. We
can remove either finally block or catch block, but never both.